# <h1 align="center">IMDB Movies Sentiment Analysis</h1>

<p align="justify">The objective of this project is to conduct a performance comparison between classic statistical methods, including Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine, Bayesian approaches, and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), the preeminent algorithm for sentiment analysis.</p>

<p align="justify">To begin with, the publicly available IMDB dataset of Kaggle which consists of 50.000 movie reviews underwent statistical analysis for descriptive insights, and the balance of sentiments was checked. Additionally, a visualization of the distribution of review lengths within the dataset was performed. For dataset cleansing, HTML tags and special characters were removed, and the text was converted to lowercase. Furthermore, various text processing tasks were implemented, such as removing stopwords, applying spelling correction, and lemmatization.</p>

<p align="justify">Following the execution of text processing steps, the normalized dataset was generated by labeling sentiment data and vectorizing text using TF-IDF. In the final stage, Multinomial Naive Bayes (MNB), Logistic Regression (LR), and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers were applied, resulting in accuracies of 0.7547, 0.7544, and 0.5108, respectively. Hyperparameter tuning of the MNB leads to a slight improvement in performance to 0.7553.</p>

<p align="justify">In contrast to the statistical methods, the BERT algorithm exhibited an accuracy of 0.506 before training, which significantly improved to 0.886 after training. Overall, the accuracy evaluation metric indicates that the BERT approach outperforms the classical statistical methods. It is noteworthy that data preparation is automated in BERT, but the training processing time is considerably longer compared to other methods. Consequently, considering both performance and efficiency, the BERT method is preferable, whereas the classic statistical methods offer faster processing times.</p>

<p align="justify">In this <a href="https://statisticalsentimentanalysis.streamlit.app/">demo</a>, three statistical trained models used for deployment reasons. The whole project description is presented in the <a href="https://github.com/KovousoglouGeorgios/IMDB-Movies-Sentiment-Analysis-/blob/803d1fe74b6ef9e6d88c024e7e5d07fe2d2a472d/IMDB%20Movies%20Sentiment%20Analysis%20.ipynb">jupyter notebook</a>.</p>









